Draft for wallet attestation (#408)
openid/OpenID4VCI: openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.md

> **Wallet attestation** is a mechanism where the Wallet Provider asserts the client's authenticity and genuinity. The Wallet can provide this data in the Pushed Authorization Request or Token Request to allow the Authorization Server to validate the Wallet's authenticity. Directly using key, app, and/or device attestations to prove certain capabilities to an Authorization Server is an possibility although existing platform attestations are partly intended for first party interactions, i.e. the Wallet Provider's backend service and create direct dependencies to these services. The approach recommended by this specification is that the Credential Issuer relies on the OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication to establish trust in the Wallet and leaves it to the Wallet to ensure its internal integrity using app and key attestation (if required). This establishes a clean separation between the different components and a uniform interface irrespective of the Wallet's architecture (e.g., native vs. Web Wallet). Therefore, this specification introduces a common format utlizing the mechanisms of Attestation-Based Client Authentication as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth] that may be used by Credential Issuers for improved interoperability, see [](#walletattestation). Beside this, other OAuth client authentication methods may be used, e.g. private-key JWT.

Author: ```suggestion
**Client Authentication** allows a Wallet to authenticate with the Authorization Server of the Credential Issuer.  Authorization Server may want to authenticate Wallets to determine whether they communicate to a Wallet that meets its security, compliance or governance requirements, based on the trust framework in use, regulatory requirements, laws, or internal design decisions.  Any token endpoint authentication method as registered in the [OAuth Token Endpoint Authentication Methods IANA Registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/oauth-parameters/oauth-parameters.xhtml#token-endpoint-auth-method) may be used with the Pushed Authorization or Token Request. An Authorization Server SHOULD communicate its client authentication requirement  through its `token_endpoint_auth_method` metadata parameter. 

**Wallet attestation** is a client authentication mechanism where the Wallet Provider asserts the client's authenticity and genuinity utlizing the mechanisms of Attestation-Based Client Authentication as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth], for details see (reference)
```

> **Client Authentication** allows a Wallet to authenticate with the Authorization Server of the Credential Issuer.  Authorization Server may want to authenticate Wallets to determine whether they communicate to a Wallet that meets its security, compliance or governance requirements, based on the trust framework in use, regulatory requirements, laws, or internal design decisions.  Any token endpoint authentication method as registered in the [OAuth Token Endpoint Authentication Methods IANA Registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/oauth-parameters/oauth-parameters.xhtml#token-endpoint-auth-method) may be used with the Pushed Authorization or Token Request. An Authorization Server SHOULD communicate its client authentication requirement  through its `token_endpoint_auth_method` metadata parameter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Client Authentication** allows a Wallet to authenticate with the Authorization Server of the Credential Issuer. The Authorization Server may want to authenticate Wallets to determine whether they communicate to a Wallet that meets its security, compliance or governance requirements, based on the trust framework in use, regulatory requirements, laws, or internal design decisions. Any token endpoint authentication method as registered in the [OAuth Token Endpoint Authentication Methods IANA Registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/oauth-parameters/oauth-parameters.xhtml#token-endpoint-auth-method) may be used with the Pushed Authorization or Token Request. An Authorization Server SHOULD communicate its client authentication requirement through its `token_endpoint_auth_method` metadata parameter. 
```

> **Client Authentication** allows a Wallet to authenticate with the Authorization Server of the Credential Issuer. The Authorization Server may want to authenticate Wallets to determine whether they communicate to a Wallet that meets its security, compliance or governance requirements, based on the trust framework in use, regulatory requirements, laws, or internal design decisions. Any token endpoint authentication method as registered in the [OAuth Token Endpoint Authentication Methods IANA Registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/oauth-parameters/oauth-parameters.xhtml#token-endpoint-auth-method) may be used with the Pushed Authorization or Token Request. An Authorization Server SHOULD communicate its client authentication requirement through its `token_endpoint_auth_method` metadata parameter. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Client Authentication** enables a Wallet to authenticate with the Credential Issuer's Authorization Server. This authentication ensures that the Wallet complies with the Authorization Server's security, compliance, and governance standards, which may be required by trust frameworks, regulatory requirements, laws, or internal policies. Any method listed in the [OAuth Token Endpoint Authentication Methods IANA Registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/oauth-parameters/oauth-parameters.xhtml#token-endpoint-auth-method) can be used for authentication during the Pushed Authorization or Token Request. The Authorization Server SHOULD specify its client authentication requirements using the `token_endpoint_auth_method` metadata parameter.
```

> **Wallet attestation** is a client authentication mechanism where the Wallet Provider asserts the client's authenticity and genuinity utlizing the mechanisms of Attestation-Based Client Authentication as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth], for details see (reference)

Author: ```suggestion
**Wallet attestation** is a client authentication mechanism where the Wallet Provider asserts the client's authenticity and genuinity utlizing the mechanisms of Attestation-Based Client Authentication as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth], for details see (#walletattestation).
```

> **Wallet attestation** is a client authentication mechanism where the Wallet Provider asserts the client's authenticity and genuinity utlizing the mechanisms of Attestation-Based Client Authentication as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth], for details see (#walletattestation).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wallet Attestation is a signed proof provided by the Wallet Provider, verifying the client's authenticity and genuineness. This process uses the mechanisms outlined in Attestation-Based Client Authentication, described in the Section [Wallet Attestation](#walletattestation). Once obtained, the Wallet Attestation can be used to authenticate the Wallet.
```

> **Wallet attestation** is a mechanism where the Wallet Provider asserts the client's authenticity and genuinity. The Wallet can provide this data in the Pushed Authorization Request or Token Request to allow the Authorization Server to validate the Wallet's authenticity. Directly using key, app, and/or device attestations to prove certain capabilities to an Authorization Server is an possibility although existing platform attestations are partly intended for first party interactions, i.e. the Wallet Provider's backend service and create direct dependencies to these services. The approach recommended by this specification is that the Credential Issuer relies on the OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication to establish trust in the Wallet and leaves it to the Wallet to ensure its internal integrity using app and key attestation (if required). This establishes a clean separation between the different components and a uniform interface irrespective of the Wallet's architecture (e.g., native vs. Web Wallet). Therefore, this specification introduces a common format utlizing the mechanisms of Attestation-Based Client Authentication as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth] that may be used by Credential Issuers for improved interoperability, see [](#walletattestation). Beside this, other OAuth client authentication methods may be used, e.g. private-key JWT.

Author: did you actually change anything? I can't see the difference

> **Wallet attestation** is a mechanism where the Wallet Provider asserts the client's software and device authenticity and genuinity. The Wallet can provide this data in the Pushed Authorization Request or Token Request to allow the Authorization Server to validate the Wallet's authenticity. Directly using key, app, and/or device attestations to prove certain capabilities to an Authorization Server is an possibility although existing platform attestations are partly intended for first party interactions, i.e. the Wallet Provider's backend service and create direct dependencies to these services. The approach recommended by this specification is that the Credential Issuer relies on the OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication to establish trust in the Wallet and leaves it to the Wallet to ensure its internal integrity using app and key attestation (if required). This establishes a clean separation between the different components and a uniform interface irrespective of the Wallet's architecture (e.g., native vs. Web Wallet). Therefore, this specification introduces a common format utlizing the mechanisms of Attestation-Based Client Authentication as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth] that may be used by Credential Issuers for improved interoperability, see [](#walletattestation). Beside this, other OAuth client authentication methods may be used, e.g. private-key JWT.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Wallet attestation** is a mechanism where the Wallet Provider asserts the Wallet software and hardware authenticity and genuinity. The Wallet SHOLD provide this data in the Pushed Authorization Request or Token Request to allow the Authorization Server to validate the Wallet's authenticity. While it is possible to directly use key, application, and device attestations to demonstrate capabilities to an Authorization Server, this approach has limitations. Existing platform attestations are primarily designed for first-party interactions (such as between a device and the Wallet Provider's backend services). Using these attestations directly would create unwanted dependencies on these services and may not be suitable for third-party interactions. The approach recommended by this specification is that the Credential Issuer relies on the OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication to establish trust in the Wallet and leaves it to the Wallet to ensure its internal integrity using app and key attestation (if required). This establishes a clean separation between the different components and a uniform interface irrespective of the Wallet's architecture (e.g., native vs. Web Wallet). Therefore, this specification introduces a common format utlizing the mechanisms of Attestation-Based Client Authentication as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth] that may be used by Credential Issuers for improved interoperability, see [](#walletattestation). Beside this, other OAuth client authentication methods may be used, e.g. private-key JWT.
```

I would move this `While it is possible to directly use key, application, and device attestations to demonstrate capabilities to an Authorization Server, this approach has limitations. Existing platform attestations are primarily designed for first-party interactions (such as between a device and the Wallet Provider's backend services). Using these attestations directly would create unwanted dependencies on these services and may not be suitable for third-party interactions. The approach recommended by this specification is that the Credential Issuer relies on the OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication to establish trust in the Wallet and leaves it to the Wallet to ensure its internal integrity using app and key attestation (if required). This establishes a clean separation between the different components and a uniform interface irrespective of the Wallet's architecture (e.g., native vs. Web Wallet). Therefore, this specification introduces a common format utlizing the mechanisms of Attestation-Based Client Authentication as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth] that may be used by Credential Issuers for improved interoperability, see [](#walletattestation). Beside this, other OAuth client authentication methods may be used, e.g. private-key JWT.` to a impl consideration section.

Author: I would not like to split up the information about wallet attestation too much

Reviewer 3: Is the wallet attestation really about hardware authenticity?

Reviewer 3: In the end the wallet attestation is intended to be used to authenticate the wallet app to the issuer. We should be careful not to put too much beyond this into this concept.

Author: applied Torsten's comment

<{{examples/credential_response_sd_jwt_vc.txt}}

# Wallet Attestations {#walletattestation}

> The Wallet Attestation defined by this specification is a verifiable statement that confirms the authenticity and security properties of a Wallet to the Authorization Server. Wallets can have different architectures, such as app-based with a backend service or web-based running entirely in a browser. Wallet attestations are architecture-independent and require a backend service from the Wallet Provider. When creating a Wallet attestation, the Wallet Provider MUST verify the Client's authenticity. App attestations provided by operating systems, like iOS's DeviceCheck or Android's Play Integrity, enable the Wallet Provider's backend to confirm communication with a legitimate instance. These mechanisms help validate the Wallet's internal integrity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Wallet Attestation defined by this specification is a verifiable statement that confirms the authenticity and security properties of a Wallet to the Authorization Server. Wallets can have different architectures, such as app-based with a backend service or web-based running entirely in a browser. Wallet attestations are architecture-independent and require a backend service from the Wallet Provider. When creating a Wallet Attestation, the Wallet Provider MUST verify the Client's authenticity. Mobile application attestations provided by operating systems, like iOS's DeviceCheck or Android's Play Integrity, enable the Wallet Provider's backend to confirm communication with a legitimate instance. These mechanisms help validate the Wallet's internal integrity.
```

> The Wallet Attestation defined by this specification is a verifiable statement that confirms the authenticity and security properties of a Wallet to the Authorization Server. Wallets can have different architectures, such as app-based with a backend service or web-based running entirely in a browser. Wallet attestations are architecture-independent and require a backend service from the Wallet Provider. When creating a Wallet Attestation, the Wallet Provider MUST verify the Client's authenticity. Mobile application attestations provided by operating systems, like iOS's DeviceCheck or Android's Play Integrity, enable the Wallet Provider's backend to confirm communication with a legitimate instance. These mechanisms help validate the Wallet's internal integrity.

Reviewer 3: I think the way the wallet attestation is created should be out of scope in this document. It creates intentionally or unintentionally restrictions wrt the concept. Just one example, a wallet attestation used by a web wallet does not need a platform attestation nor does it need to be issued by the wallet backend. It could be issued by any trusted issuer.

> The Wallet Attestation defined by this specification is a verifiable statement that confirms the authenticity and security properties of a Wallet to the Authorization Server. Wallets can have different architectures, such as app-based with a backend service or web-based running entirely in a browser. Wallet attestations are architecture-independent and require a backend service from the Wallet Provider. When creating a Wallet Attestation, the Wallet Provider MUST verify the Client's authenticity. Mobile application attestations provided by operating systems, like iOS's DeviceCheck or Android's Play Integrity, enable the Wallet Provider's backend to confirm communication with a legitimate instance. These mechanisms help validate the Wallet's internal integrity.

Reviewer 4: Agree with Torsten here I don't think we should be making normative assertions about the Wallet Provider <-> Client relationship in this specification.

> A Wallet MAY provide wallet attestations to inform the Authorization Server about the authenticity of the client and its `client_id`. Authorization Server may want to evaluate these wallet attestations to determine whether they communciate to a Wallet that meets its security, compliance or governance requirements, based on the trust framework in use, regulatory requirements, laws, or internal design decisions. A Credential Issuer SHOULD communicate this requirement to evaluate wallet attestations through its metadata using `token_endpoint_auth_method` or using some sort of out-of-band mechanism.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Wallet MAY provide Wallet Attestations to inform the Authorization Server about the authenticity of the Client and its `client_id`. Authorization Server may want to evaluate these Wallet Attestations to determine whether they communicate to a Wallet that meets its security, compliance or governance requirements, based on the trust framework in use, regulatory requirements, laws, or internal design decisions. A Credential Issuer SHOULD communicate this requirement to evaluate Wallet Attestations through its metadata using `token_endpoint_auth_method` or using some sort of out-of-band mechanism.
```

> A Wallet MAY provide Wallet Attestations to inform the Authorization Server about the authenticity of the Client and its `client_id`. Authorization Server may want to evaluate these Wallet Attestations to determine whether they communicate to a Wallet that meets its security, compliance or governance requirements, based on the trust framework in use, regulatory requirements, laws, or internal design decisions. A Credential Issuer SHOULD communicate this requirement to evaluate Wallet Attestations through its metadata using `token_endpoint_auth_method` or using some sort of out-of-band mechanism.

Reviewer 3: The wallet attestation first and foremost authenticates the wallet and its client id. The rest are potential use cases, we should not overemphasize them.

Reviewer 3: needs to say AS, not CI

> Since wallet attestations may be used for different Authorization Server from different trust frameworks and varying in their requirements, it is necessary to use a common approach to facilitate interoperability. Therefore, wallet attestations SHOULD use a common format, allowing Credential Issuers to develop consistent evaluation processes, reducing complexity and potential errors. Common formats make it easy for Credential Issuers to demonstrate compliance with regulatory requirements across different jurisdictions and facilitate the development of shared best practices and security benchmarks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since Wallet Attestations may be used for different Authorization Server from different trust frameworks and varying in their requirements, it is necessary to use a common approach to facilitate interoperability. Therefore, Wallet Attestations SHOULD use a common format, allowing Credential Issuers to develop consistent evaluation processes, reducing complexity and potential errors. Common formats make it easy for Credential Issuers to demonstrate compliance with regulatory requirements across different jurisdictions and facilitate the development of shared best practices and security benchmarks.
```

> There are two ways to convey wallet attestations during Credential issuance using the header-based syntax of Attestation-Based Client Authentication:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two ways to convey Wallet Attestations during Credential issuance using the header-based syntax of Attestation-Based Client Authentication:
```

- The Wallet sends it in the Pushed Authorization Request
- The Wallet sends it in the Token Request

> The Wallet Attestation format follows Section 5.1 "Client Attestation JWT" of Attestation-Based Client Authentication. The client_id in the `sub` claim is expected to be the same for every Wallet instance of a Wallet Provider. The Wallet Attestation additionally includes the following JWT Claims:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Wallet Attestation format follows Section 5.1 "Client Attestation JWT" of Attestation-Based Client Authentication. The Wallet Attestation additionally includes the following JWT Claims:
```
how the sub parameter should be valued should be defined in the Attestation-Based Client Authentication specification.

* `wallet_name`: REQUIRED. String containing a human-readable name of the Wallet.

> * `wallet_link`: REQUIRED. String containing a URL to get further information about the Wallet and the Wallet Provider.

Reviewer 4: I do wonder whether this is needed, you will already likely have some metadata on the client (e.g wallet) available which serves the same purpose as this, I don't think conveying this in the attestation is the right model.

Reviewer 3: I agree. I would (at least) make the claims optional.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> * `wallet_link`: REQUIRED. A String containing a URL to get further information about the Wallet and the Wallet Provider.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* `wallet_link`: REQUIRED. A String containing a URL to get further information about the Wallet and the Wallet Provider.
* `status`: OPTIONAL. Object compliant to IETF Status List draft.
```

<{{examples/credential_response_sd_jwt_vc.txt}}

> # Wallet Attestations {#walletattestation}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Wallet Attestations in JWT format {#walletattestation}
```

> The Wallet Attestation defined in this section is a verifiable statement in JWT format that is used to authenticate the Wallet with the Authorization Server of the Credential Issuer. The Wallet Attestation MUST be signed by an issuer that the Authorization Server of the Credential Issuer trusts for this purpose. 

Author: ```suggestion
The Wallet Attestation defined in this section is a client authentication method especially designed for native App Wallets. Instead of using platform-specific key, app, and/or device attestations directly, it uses a key-bound, platform agnostic common format based on JWTs. This allows Authorization Servers to authenticate Wallets across different platforms in a unified fashion and exposes only a minimum dataset. Also, it allows the Wallet app to directly interact with the Credential Issuer without involving the Wallet Provider's backend. The Wallet Attestation MUST be signed by an issuer that the Authorization Server of the Credential Issuer trusts for this purpose. 
```

> The Wallet Attestation defined by this specification is a verifiable statement that confirms the authenticity and security properties of a Wallet to the Authorization Server. Wallets can have different architectures, such as app-based with a backend service or web-based running entirely in a browser. Wallet attestations are architecture-independent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Wallet Attestation defined in this section is a verifiable statement in JWT format that is used to authenticate the wallet with the Authorization Server of the credential issuer. Wallets can have different architectures, such as app-based with a backend service or web-based running entirely in a browser. Wallet attestations are architecture-independent.
```

Some Wallet architectures require a backend service from the Wallet Provider that verifies the Client's authenticity before providing Wallet Attestations. Mobile application attestations provided by operating systems, like iOS's DeviceCheck or Android's Play Integrity, enable the Wallet Provider's backend to confirm communication with a legitimate instance. These mechanisms help validate the Wallet's internal integrity.

> A Wallet MAY provide Wallet Attestations to inform the Authorization Server about the authenticity of the Client and its `client_id`. Authorization Server may want to evaluate these Wallet Attestations to determine whether they communicate to a Wallet that meets its security, compliance or governance requirements, based on the trust framework in use, regulatory requirements, laws, or internal design decisions. A Credential Issuer SHOULD communicate this requirement to evaluate Wallet Attestations through its metadata using `token_endpoint_auth_method` or using some sort of out-of-band mechanism.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A Wallet MAY provide a Wallet Attestation as defined in this section to inform the Authorization Server about the authenticity of the Client and its `client_id`. A Credential Issuer SHOULD communicate its requirement for the wallet attestation mechanism as client authentication mechanisms through its metadata using `token_endpoint_auth_method`.
```

> A Wallet MAY provide Wallet Attestations to inform the Authorization Server about the authenticity of the Client and its `client_id`. Authorization Server may want to evaluate these Wallet Attestations to determine whether they communicate to a Wallet that meets its security, compliance or governance requirements, based on the trust framework in use, regulatory requirements, laws, or internal design decisions. A Credential Issuer SHOULD communicate this requirement to evaluate Wallet Attestations through its metadata using `token_endpoint_auth_method` or using some sort of out-of-band mechanism.

Author: ```suggestion
A Wallet MAY provide Wallet Attestations to inform the Authorization Server about the authenticity of the Client and its `client_id`. Authorization Server may want to evaluate these Wallet Attestations to determine whether they communicate to a Wallet that meets its security, compliance or governance requirements, based on the trust framework in use, regulatory requirements, laws, or internal design decisions. A Credential Issuer SHOULD communicate this requirement to evaluate Wallet Attestations through its metadata using `token_endpoint_auth_method` or using some sort of out-of-band mechanism. The Wallet Attestation MUST be signed by an wallet provider that the Authorization Server trusts for this purpose.
```

> Since Wallet Attestations may be used for different Authorization Server from different trust frameworks and varying in their requirements, it is necessary to use a common approach to facilitate interoperability. Therefore, Wallet Attestations SHOULD use a common format, allowing Credential Issuers to develop consistent evaluation processes, reducing complexity and potential errors. Common formats make it easy for Credential Issuers to demonstrate compliance with regulatory requirements across different jurisdictions and facilitate the development of shared best practices and security benchmarks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since Wallet Attestations may be used for different Authorization Server from different trust frameworks and varying in their requirements, it is necessary to use a common approach to facilitate interoperability. Therefore, this section proposes a common format, allowing Credential Issuers to develop consistent evaluation processes, reducing complexity and potential errors. Common formats make it easy for Credential Issuers to demonstrate compliance with regulatory requirements across different jurisdictions and facilitate the development of shared best practices and security benchmarks.
```

> There are two ways to convey Wallet Attestations during Credential issuance using the header-based syntax of Attestation-Based Client Authentication:

Reviewer 3: add reference to client attestation spec

Author: ```suggestion
There are two ways to convey Wallet Attestations during Credential issuance using the header-based syntax of [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth]:
```

- The Wallet sends it in the Pushed Authorization Request
- The Wallet sends it in the Token Request

> The Wallet Attestation format follows Section 5.1 "Client Attestation JWT" of Attestation-Based Client Authentication. The Wallet Attestation additionally includes the following JWT Claims:

Reviewer 3: add reference

Author: ```suggestion
The Wallet Attestation format follows Section 5.1 "Client Attestation JWT" of [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth]. The Wallet Attestation additionally includes the following JWT Claims:
```

* `wallet_name`: REQUIRED. String containing a human-readable name of the Wallet.
* `wallet_link`: REQUIRED. String containing a URL to get further information about the Wallet and the Wallet Provider.

> * `status`: OPTIONAL. Object compliant to IETF Status List draft.

Author: ```suggestion
* `status`: OPTIONAL. Status mechanism for the Wallet Attestation as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-token-status-list]
```

The following is a non-normative example of a Wallet Attestation:

```
{
  "typ": "oauth-client-attestation+jwt"
  "alg": "ES256",
  "kid": "11"
}
.
{
  "iss": "https://client.example.com",
  "sub": "https://client.example.com",
  "wallet_name": "Wallet Solution X by Wonderland State Department",
  "wallet_link": "https://example.com/wallet/detail_info.html",
  "nbf":1300815780,
  "exp":1300819380,
  "cnf": {
    "jwk": {
      "kty": "EC",
      "use": "sig",
      "crv": "P-256",
      "x": "18wHLeIgW9wVN6VD1Txgpqy2LszYkMf6J8njVAibvhM",
      "y": "-V4dS4UaLMgP_4fY4j8ir7cl1TXlFdAgcx55o7TkcSA"
    }
  }
}
```

To use the Wallet Attestation towards the Authorization Server, the Wallet MUST generate a proof of possession according to Section 5.2 "Client Attestation PoP JWT" of Attestation-Based Client Authentication.

> 

Reviewer 3: Suggest to add: "The wallet attestation MUST be signed by an issuer that the Authorization Server trusts for this purpose."

Author: added as suggestion further above

<{{examples/credential_response_sd_jwt_vc.txt}}

# Wallet Attestations in JWT format {#walletattestation}

> The Wallet Attestation defined in this section is a client authentication method especially designed for native App Wallets. Instead of using platform-specific key, app, and/or device attestations directly, it uses a key-bound, platform agnostic common format based on JWTs. This allows Authorization Servers to authenticate Wallets across different platforms in a unified fashion and exposes only a minimum dataset. Also, it allows the Wallet app to directly interact with the Credential Issuer without involving the Wallet Provider's backend. The Wallet Attestation MUST be signed by an issuer that the Authorization Server of the Credential Issuer trusts for this purpose. 

Reviewer 2: technically the wallet attestation is a signed attestation that can be used in the client authentication mechanisms, as outlined in my previous comment.

if agreed, I can therefore purpose a rewording also here

Reviewer 5: can we please do that in a separate editorial PR during the WGLC of VCI ID-2? so that we can merge this PR and start WGLC? thank you

Reviewer 2: Moved here: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/issues/428

There are two requests where Wallets may need to authenticate during Credential issuance:
- The Wallet sends it in the Pushed Authorization Request
- The Wallet sends it in the Token Request

The Wallet Attestation format follows Section 5.1 "Client Attestation JWT" of [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth]. The Wallet Attestation additionally includes the following JWT Claims:

* `wallet_name`: OPTIONAL. String containing a human-readable name of the Wallet.
* `wallet_link`: OPTIONAL. String containing a URL to get further information about the Wallet and the Wallet Provider.
* `status`: OPTIONAL. Status mechanism for the Wallet Attestation as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-token-status-list]

The following is a non-normative example of a Wallet Attestation:

```
{
  "typ": "oauth-client-attestation+jwt"
  "alg": "ES256",
  "kid": "11"
}
.
{
  "iss": "https://client.example.com",
  "sub": "https://client.example.com",
  "wallet_name": "Wallet Solution X by Wonderland State Department",
  "wallet_link": "https://example.com/wallet/detail_info.html",

>   "nbf":1300815780,
>   "exp":1300819380,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "nbf": 1300815780,
  "exp": 1300819380,
```

<{{examples/credential_response_sd_jwt_vc.txt}}

# Wallet Attestations in JWT format {#walletattestation}

The Wallet Attestation defined in this section is a client authentication method especially designed for native App Wallets. Instead of using platform-specific key, app, and/or device attestations directly, it uses a key-bound, platform agnostic common format based on JWTs. This allows Authorization Servers to authenticate Wallets across different platforms in a unified fashion and exposes only a minimum dataset. Also, it allows the Wallet app to directly interact with the Credential Issuer without involving the Wallet Provider's backend. The Wallet Attestation MUST be signed by an issuer that the Authorization Server of the Credential Issuer trusts for this purpose. 

In a typical architecture of a native Wallet App, the Wallet Provider's backend will use attestations provided by the mobile operating system, like iOS's DeviceCheck or Android's Play Integrity, to validate the app's integrity and authenticity before issuing the Wallet Attestation.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

<{{examples/credential_response_sd_jwt_vc.txt}}

# Wallet Attestations in JWT format {#walletattestation}

The Wallet Attestation defined in this section is a client authentication method especially designed for native App Wallets. Instead of using platform-specific key, app, and/or device attestations directly, it uses a key-bound, platform agnostic common format based on JWTs. This allows Authorization Servers to authenticate Wallets across different platforms in a unified fashion and exposes only a minimum dataset. Also, it allows the Wallet app to directly interact with the Credential Issuer without involving the Wallet Provider's backend. The Wallet Attestation MUST be signed by an issuer that the Authorization Server of the Credential Issuer trusts for this purpose. 

> Some Wallet architectures require a backend service from the Wallet Provider that verifies the Client's authenticity before providing Wallet Attestations. Mobile application attestations provided by operating systems, like iOS's DeviceCheck or Android's Play Integrity, enable the Wallet Provider's backend to confirm communication with a legitimate instance. These mechanisms help validate the Wallet's internal integrity.

Author: ```suggestion
In a typical architecture of a native Wallet App, the Wallet Provider's backend will use attestations provided by the mobile operating system, like iOS's DeviceCheck or Android's Play Integrity, to validate the app's integrity and authenticity before issuing the Wallet Attestation.
```

> A Wallet MAY provide Wallet Attestations to inform the Authorization Server about the authenticity of the Client and its `client_id`. Authorization Server may want to evaluate these Wallet Attestations to determine whether they communicate to a Wallet that meets its security, compliance or governance requirements, based on the trust framework in use, regulatory requirements, laws, or internal design decisions. A Credential Issuer SHOULD communicate this requirement to evaluate Wallet Attestations through its metadata using `token_endpoint_auth_method` or using some sort of out-of-band mechanism.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 
> Since Wallet Attestations may be used for different Authorization Server from different trust frameworks and varying in their requirements, it is necessary to use a common approach to facilitate interoperability. Therefore, this section proposes a common format, allowing Credential Issuers to develop consistent evaluation processes, reducing complexity and potential errors. Common formats make it easy for Credential Issuers to demonstrate compliance with regulatory requirements across different jurisdictions and facilitate the development of shared best practices and security benchmarks.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> There are two ways to convey Wallet Attestations during Credential issuance using the header-based syntax of [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth]:

Author: ```suggestion
There are two requests where Wallets may need to authenticate during Credential issuance:
```

<{{examples/credential_response_sd_jwt_vc.txt}}

# Wallet Attestations {#walletattestation}

> A wallet attestation defined by this specification is an interoperable, verifiable statement that provides evidence of authenticity and security properties of a wallet to the Authorization Server. Wallets may have different architectures, e.g. they may be app-based with a backend service or web wallets running entirely within the browser. Wallet attestations are independent from the wallet's architecture, but require a require a backend service from the Wallet Provider. When the Wallet Provider creates the wallet attestation, it needs to verify the authenticity of the client. App attestation, as provided by mobile operating systems, e.g., iOS's DeviceCheck or Android's Play Integrity, allows the Wallet Provider's backend system to ensure it is communicating to a legitimate instance of its genuine app. Those mechanisms can be utilized to validate the internal integrity of the Wallet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Wallet attestation defined by this specification is an interoperable, verifiable statement that provides evidence of authenticity and security properties of a Wallet to the Authorization Server. Wallets may have different architectures, e.g. they may be app-based with a backend service or web Wallets running entirely within the browser. Wallet attestations are independent from the Wallet's architecture, but require a require a backend service from the Wallet Provider. When the Wallet Provider creates the wallet attestation, it needs to verify the authenticity of the client. App attestation, as provided by mobile operating systems, e.g., iOS's DeviceCheck or Android's Play Integrity, allows the Wallet Provider's backend system to ensure it is communicating to a legitimate instance of its genuine app. Those mechanisms can be utilized to validate the internal integrity of the Wallet.
```

<{{examples/credential_response_sd_jwt_vc.txt}}

# Wallet Attestations {#walletattestation}

> The Wallet attestation defined by this specification is an interoperable, verifiable statement that provides evidence of authenticity and security properties of a Wallet to the Authorization Server. Wallets may have different architectures, e.g. they may be app-based with a backend service or web Wallets running entirely within the browser. Wallet attestations are independent from the Wallet's architecture, but require a require a backend service from the Wallet Provider. When the Wallet Provider creates the wallet attestation, it needs to verify the authenticity of the client. App attestation, as provided by mobile operating systems, e.g., iOS's DeviceCheck or Android's Play Integrity, allows the Wallet Provider's backend system to ensure it is communicating to a legitimate instance of its genuine app. Those mechanisms can be utilized to validate the internal integrity of the Wallet.

Reviewer 6: In my opinion the Wallet Attestation should be a standardised credential that can (and should) be displayed to the user just like his/her other credentials. This will help to engender user trust in the entire ecosystem, and in the wallet app in particular. We should define the standard format for this wallet attestation credential.

> The Wallet attestation defined by this specification is an interoperable, verifiable statement that provides evidence of authenticity and security properties of a Wallet to the Authorization Server. Wallets may have different architectures, e.g. they may be app-based with a backend service or web Wallets running entirely within the browser. Wallet attestations are independent from the Wallet's architecture, but require a require a backend service from the Wallet Provider. When the Wallet Provider creates the wallet attestation, it needs to verify the authenticity of the client. App attestation, as provided by mobile operating systems, e.g., iOS's DeviceCheck or Android's Play Integrity, allows the Wallet Provider's backend system to ensure it is communicating to a legitimate instance of its genuine app. Those mechanisms can be utilized to validate the internal integrity of the Wallet.

Author: applied with minor changes.

> The Wallet attestation defined by this specification is an interoperable, verifiable statement that provides evidence of authenticity and security properties of a Wallet to the Authorization Server. Wallets may have different architectures, e.g. they may be app-based with a backend service or web Wallets running entirely within the browser. Wallet attestations are independent from the Wallet's architecture, but require a require a backend service from the Wallet Provider. When the Wallet Provider creates the wallet attestation, it needs to verify the authenticity of the client. App attestation, as provided by mobile operating systems, e.g., iOS's DeviceCheck or Android's Play Integrity, allows the Wallet Provider's backend system to ensure it is communicating to a legitimate instance of its genuine app. Those mechanisms can be utilized to validate the internal integrity of the Wallet.

Author: @David-Chadwick this PR defines a standardised credential for wallet attestation. It should be displayed to the user, but not as any other credential, as that may confuse most users, please re-raise this point if its important to you

> The Wallet attestation defined by this specification is an interoperable, verifiable statement that provides evidence of authenticity and security properties of a Wallet to the Authorization Server. Wallets may have different architectures, e.g. they may be app-based with a backend service or web Wallets running entirely within the browser. Wallet attestations are independent from the Wallet's architecture, but require a require a backend service from the Wallet Provider. When the Wallet Provider creates the wallet attestation, it needs to verify the authenticity of the client. App attestation, as provided by mobile operating systems, e.g., iOS's DeviceCheck or Android's Play Integrity, allows the Wallet Provider's backend system to ensure it is communicating to a legitimate instance of its genuine app. Those mechanisms can be utilized to validate the internal integrity of the Wallet.

Reviewer 6: The user may hold credentials for multiple subjects e.g. themselves, their pet, their children, their wallet. So I do not see why the wallet attestation cannot be displayed like any other credential. It just needs the wallet to have tabs labelled with the subject's name/ID/alias, so that the user can see which credentials they hold for which subjects.

Since wallet attestations may be used for different Authorization Server from different trust frameworks and varying in their requirements, it is necessary to use a common approach to facilitate interoperability. Therefore, wallet attestations SHOULD use a common format, allowing Credential Issuers to develop consistent evaluation processes, reducing complexity and potential errors. Common formats make it easy for Credential Issuers to demonstrate compliance with regulatory requirements across different jurisdictions and facilitate the development of shared best practices and security benchmarks.

There are two ways to convey wallet attestations during Credential issuance using the header-based syntax of Attestation-Based Client Authentication:
- The Wallet sends it in the Pushed Authorization Request
- The Wallet sends it in the Token Request

The Wallet Attestation format follows Section 5.1 "Client Attestation JWT" of Attestation-Based Client Authentication. The client_id in the `sub` claim is expected to be the same for every Wallet instance of a Wallet Provider. The Wallet Attestation additionally includes the following JWT Claims:

> * `wallet_name`: REQUIRED. A String containing a human-readable name of the Wallet.
> * `wallet_link`: REQUIRED. A String containing a URL to get further information about the Wallet and the Wallet Provider.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* `wallet_name`: REQUIRED. String containing a human-readable name of the Wallet.
* `wallet_link`: REQUIRED. String containing a URL to get further information about the Wallet and the Wallet Provider.
```

sorry..

   -15

>    * add section on wallet attestations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * add section on Wallet Attestations
```
